Source Path: gas_docs_html/apps-script/reference/index.html

AI-generated Key Takeaways
outlined_flag
The reference documentation details Apps Script services and script project resources.
Apps Script services allow your script to access data on Google and external systems, including Google services for Google Workspace apps and utility services.
Advanced services provide access to Google product APIs as thin wrappers.
Script project resources offer information about your project's manifest, triggers, and quotas to help it run successfully.
You can use the Apps Script API resources to programmatically manage Apps Script projects.
The reference documentation provided in this section describes the various
Apps Script services and project resources.
Apps Script services
Apps Script services provide ways for your script to access data
on
Google and external systems. These services are built into the
Apps Script
environment so you don't have to import them or implement authorization
controls yourself. Services are expressed as global objects with associated
methods, similar to JavaScript objects such as
Math
.
Apps Script services include:
Google services
are services that let
you access the data of Google Workspace
apps, such as Drive, Gmail, and Sheets, and other Google apps such as Maps and
Translate.
Utility services
are services that aren't connected to a
particular Google product. They let you do
things like log information, create HTML, compress data, and more.
Advanced services
Some Google services are offered as an
advanced service
. An advanced service
is an Apps Script service that lets you access Google product
APIs, including
but not limited to the Google Workspace product APIs.
An advanced Google service is basically a thin wrapper around an API, and isn't
an API itself. For more details, see
Advanced Google
services
.
Script project resources
Script project resources provide information about your
Apps Script
project to help it run successfully. Project resources include information about
manifest configuration, automation triggers, and quotas.
Google Workspace add-on resources
You only need to refer to add-on resources if you're building a
Google Workspace add-on
.
Apps Script API
Use these resources if you want to programmatically create, modify, or deploy
Apps Script projects using the
Apps Script
API
.